British Holidays
There are a number of holidays, which are celebrated in Great Britain every year.
One of them is the New Year’s Day. England celebrates the New Year from the evening of
the 31st of December into the 1st of January. It isn’t as popular as Christmas in England, but it is
rather popular in Scotland. On that day people usually visit their friends and there is a lot of
dancing and eating. In Scotland people bring a piece of coal for good luck in the New Year.
The next holiday of the year is St. Valentine’s Day. It is on the 14th of February. People buy
or make Valentine cards and send them to the people they love.
In March there is Mother’s Day. All the children and adults come to their mothers on that
day to express their love and gratitude.
In April there is Easter. At Easter children eat chocolate Easter eggs. Sometimes parents
hide them in the house or in the garden and children have to look for them.
In June there is Father’s Day. On Father’s Day children give or send their fathers and
grandfathers cards and presents.
On the 31st of October there is Halloween. They say ghosts and witches come out on
Halloween. People make lanterns out of pumpkins. Some people have Halloween parties and
dress as witches and ghosts.
The 25th of December is Christmas Day. It is one of the people’s favourite holidays. People
put up Christmas trees (or X-trees) in their houses and decorate them with electric fairy lights,
baubles and other ornaments. There are beautiful Christmas decorations in the streets. On
Christmas Eve everybody puts the presents under the Christmas tree. People say that at night
Father Christmas puts presents into the stockings which children usually hang above their beds.
The traditional Christmas meal is roasted turkey and Christmas pudding.
Russian Holidays
There are many national holidays in Russia, when people all over the country don’t work
and have special celebrations. The major holidays are New Year’s Day, Women’s Day, May Day,
Victory Day and Independence Day.
The first holiday of the year is New Year’s Day. People see the New Year in at midnight on
the 31st of December. They greet the New Year with champagne and listen to the Kremlin clock
bell ringing 12 times on the radio or on TV, which is followed by the national anthem. There are
lots of New Year traditions in Russia. In every home there is a New Year tree glittering with
coloured lights and decorations. Children always wait for Father Frost to come and give them a
present. Many people consider New Year’s Day to be a family holiday. But the young prefer to
have New Year parties of their own.
A renewed holiday in Russia is Christmas. It is celebrated on the 7th of January. It’s a
religious holiday and a lot of people go to church services on that day.
On the 8th of March Russian people celebrate Women’s Day when men are supposed to do
everything about the house and cook all the meals.
One more religious holiday popular in Russia is Easter. It is celebrated in spring, but has no
fixed date. At Easter people paint eggs and cook traditional Easter bread, called Kulich.
The greatest national holiday in Russia is Victory Day. It is celebrated on the 9th of May. On
this day in 1945 the Soviet Army and its allies completely defeated the German fascists, and the
Second World War and the Great Patriotic War ended. Nowadays on Victory Day many people
attend a local military parade and watch the fireworks at night. The biggest parade is in
Moscow’s Red Square; there you can see Russia’s military forces. There is a tradition to give
flowers to veterans and to lay wreaths at the war memorial sites. At home families gather
around a festive table to honor and to remember those who took part in the Second World
War. They may also watch their favourite Soviet films based on the events of the Second World
War or listen to popular war songs.
Russian people also celebrate Day of the Defender of Motherland on the 23 rd of February,
April Fools’ Day, Day of knowledge and lots of professional holidays.